Add content for meeting roles and facilitation (#33)
carpentries-incubator/meetings-rse: episodes/facilitation.md

:::::: questions

- How can I handle and reduce disruptions during a meeting?
- How can I ensure that every meeting participant can contribute effectively?

::::::::::::::::

:::::: objectives

At the end of this episode, participants will be able to...

- Identify and mitigate disruptive behaviours.
- Facilitate inclusive discussions that enable everyone to participate.
- Prevent discussions from diverging away from the intended topic or going over time.

::::::::::::::::

## Introduction

The meeting host may have done all of the necessary steps to prepare for a good meeting, including putting together a meaningful agenda and preparing participants to serve in the various meeting roles.

> However, once the meeting starts, and you've brought your participants together into your virtual space, a number of personality traits and behaviours may combine to make the meeting uninspiring, demotivating, and downright painful.

Reviewer: Do you think it would be helpful to insert a spoiler or callout here, directly addressing why we discuss behaviours here as opposed to people? It may be implied sufficiently but I anticipate this being a question that will come up in some sessions.

It's easy for certain behaviours to work against this, by slowing down the meeting or suppressing voices. Therefore, it's important that the Facilitator can identify these disruptors, and take actions to prevent them negatively affecting the meeting.

::::::::::::::::::: challenge

## Identifying Disruptive Behaviours (5 minutes)

Think of a disruptive meeting behavior that you have observed.
Describe what happened, how it impacted the meeting, and what could have been done to avoid or correct the disruption. 

This exercise should take about 5 minutes.

:::::: solution

The list generated by participants will differ for each session, but some common themes that might emerge include: 

- One or a few people talking repeatedly while others don't talk at all
- Interrupting
- Re-stating someone else's idea and claiming it as their own
- Someone talking for a long time
- Playing "devil's advocate"
- Shutting down other people's ideas, being dismissive or overly negative
- Participants stuck debating unimportant details ("bike shedding")

> - <!--- others to include in this list? --->

Reviewer: People _not_ contributing when their expertise would be valuable?

People posting off-topic, distracting comments in the VC chat? (We tend to tolerate this behaviour in the Carpentries team but I have been (rightly!) asked to stop doing it elsewhere.)

As the meeting Facilitator, some things you can do to disrupt this pattern include: 

- explicitly noting an imbalance in who has spoken (e.g. "I see that Ethan has another hand, but we haven't heard from Nadia or Felix yet.")
- only allowing participants to share one idea per turn (e.g. if Zane starts by saying "I have two points to make" interrupting with "Thanks Zane, could you please pick the most important point for this round and we'll come back to your second point after Theo and Valentina's hands?")
- interrupting someone who has been speaking too long, or is repeating themselves (e.g. "Thanks for sharing Noelle - I want to make sure we have an opportunity to hear from Priya before we wrap up this agenda item.")

Even if you are not the Facilitator, if you are in a position of relative privilege, there are some things you can do at any meeting you attend to help equalise opportunities: 

- If you frequently are the first to speak, consider waiting to put up your hand until at least one or two others have shared their thoughts.

> - If the point you were going to make has been made by someone else, put down your hand and note in the chat that you agree with Mariam.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the point you were going to make has been made by someone else, put down your hand and note in the chat that you agree with them (e.g. "+1 to Mariam's point").
```
